All right, so every video up until now
has just been getting React
with server side rendering set up.
Now we're going to switch gears
into more of the backend part of it.
But before we even do that,
we need to understand like, what is GraphQL?
Why am I taking this tutorial?
What's so good about it?
What are the different ideas behind it?
So this is going to be one of those videos
where you don't do any coding.
You're pretty much just going to be sitting
on your hands and listening to me attempt
to explain what GraphQL is.
So if you want to grab a beer or a coffee
or a chai or a vape, whatever your vice is,
go and grab it right now because we're
gonna be talking about GraphQL
for the next couple of minutes.
So first of all, what is GraphQL?
GraphQL is a specification built to
implement both a server in GraphQL to serve
up data as well as be able to fetch
that data from the client.
Important parts of what I just said there is that,
first of all, GraphQL is agnostic to the language,
meaning that your server can
implement GraphQL in any language that it wants,
and your front end, or the thing that consumes your GraphQL,
doesn't even necessarily have to be in the web browser.
It could be an Arduino
or it could be a microcontroller or anything
that needs to consume the data,
could interface with a GraphQL interface.
The second part is that GraphQL is a SPEC.
So previously what we had for fetching data,
we sort of standardized on this,
or as far as you can say standardized on
what is called JSON APIs
where we're fetching data from an API.
And the fact, I just went to api.com.
Api.github.com/users/wesbos.
The fact that that's /users/wesbos,
that's not part of a specification,
GitHub just made that up,
and every single time that you need to learn an API
you need to learn like, okay,
how does this API work?
What tokens do I need to specifically pass this API
in order for it to work?
Do I need to have it as a get request or a post request.
If I'm creating an item, is it a post or a put?
If I'm deleting an item,
is it a post request or delete request?
And it gets a little bit confusing
that you have to relearn how APIs work
across every single one.
Second of all, when I'm hitting this API for GitHub here,
like what if I don't care about any of this stuff?
What if I just wanted to get the URL
or the type and the name of the person, right?
Like all this extra data that's coming
across the wire is unnecessary
or I get into some points about that in GraphQL.
So GraphQL is sorta out there to either
replace rest or you can also set up a GraphQL server
that sits in front of a rest API that will
sort of proxy the data in between it.
But at the very basics, we need to
understand that GraphQL is a specification
that's being put out
and you can implement this in any language.
We're obviously going to be implementing it
on our front end with a library called Apollo,
and we're gonna be implementing it on the back end
with a library called Prisma
and another library called GraphQL Yoga.
Now I have opened up here,
the API end point for my Prisma server.
You don't have to do this, but I've just opened it on up
and I've also took off the credentials for it.
Again, we'll get into this as well.
and I just kinda want to show you
a couple core ideas behind GraphQL and how it works.
So first of all,
GraphQL is a single end point that you hit
and that's very different than with a rest API
where you would have many different URLs that you would hit.
And if you wanted to grab data from a multiple,
you'd have to make multiple requests.
With GraphQL what you can do
is you just have one end point
and you send it your query
and then it will return the data
and only the data that you have requested.
So here I have an empty thing in Playground
and I want to query something
and I can go ahead and ask for all of the items
and on each item I want to ask for maybe the ID
of the item and maybe the title of the item,
and then when I go ahead and run that,
it's just going to return to me
the items along with the ID and the title.
So GraphQL is really cool because your queries
essentially look like the JSON of the things
that you want and then it just returns you
the same structure of that data
but with the actual values that have been pulled
from the database and filled up.
That's really cool because I can pull in items,
but then if I also wanted to pull in
a list of users and their names,
I could do that no problem by pulling in items
and an array of the actual users that's coming in.
See how this is just one end point,
one request only pulling in the minimal data that I need
to pull in for each one.
It's also self-documenting,
which is really cool because actually maybe
I should talk about how it's typed real quick.
Let me look at the example.
I'm in the backend/prisma/datamodel.graphql,
and GraphQL is a typed language,
and if you're coming from any background
that has a typed language or if you use typescript,
you probably can skip this part
because you understand what that means.
But if you are coming from a JavaScript background,
you'll know that JavaScript is what is called loosely typed,
meaning that you can expect a string or a number
or an object or an array
and you can return any value, you can call arguments,
you can call a function where maybe you
are expecting to pass it a number,
but you pass it a string,
and it's not going to yell at you in any means.
However, with GraphQL, when you define your data,
you have to specifically define
what type of everything is going to be.
So like, let's take a look at our items.
Our item has a whole bunch of properties in it,
like we have an ID and we have a title
and a description and created at and an updated at
and a price and we go ahead and define
that those things are either their own custom types,
which is an ID, or they're just things
that you already know about,
strings, integers, date types,
or you can have relationships to others,
like this one, an item is created by a user
and then you have a relationship of a user,
which in turn will have a whole bunch of
other fields, things like an array of permissions
or an array of orders or a name
or a password or an email address.
You sorta get the point that we have it on there.
Now, that's really cool because
when you make your programming language so strictly typed,
you get the benefit of tools
being able to analyze your code
and provide to you a whole bunch of documentation.
So in here, if I'm saying, okay,
items I can just hit my control space character
on a new line and it will suggest to me
what the possible fields are.
If this was just a willy nilly JavaScript application,
it wouldn't know what the possible returned values are.
So I can say, oh, I want to have the description,
and then you just run that sucker again
and it gives you the description added to that.
Similarly, you can click on this little Schema tab
in the corner here and it's going to show us
all of the different queries and mutations.
I'll talk about what mutations are in just a second.
It shows me all of the different queries that we have.
So I say, okay, like how do I query,
what do I have available to me?
I can query orders, I can query cart items,
I can create different users,
I can inquiry either orders, et cetera, et cetera,
or I can do the opposite of pulling data,
which is I want to push data to the server,
I want to update data, I want to create new data.
And that is what is referred to as a mutation.
So GraphQL really just has two things,
queries, pulling data, and mutations, putting data,
updating data, creating new data, deleting.
Anytime you're actually making a change to the data
other than just observing it via a query,
that is what is called a mutation.
So now that brings me to my next point of a GraphQL
is that these queries
make writing relationships very, very simple.
So let me get rid of the list of users that I was querying,
and right here we're just going to query a list of items.
And for each item, you can pull back the ID,
and see how I just clicked on that
and it opened up the documentation.
It says like I can query items by,
and these are the arguments that it can give it.
So if I only wanted the first three or the last three
or wanted to skip the first two and show me the second one,
we'll get into that when we do pagination.
but then it also tells you the type of item
has all of these properties on it, which is pretty neat.
So I'm going to close that up.
And on each of the items we're just gonna,
let's just grab the title, see if it works.
Good, and then on there it shows me
that I can grab the user.
So if I were to grab the user and run it,
it's gonna give me an error
because it says user must have a sub-selection
and that's because there's a relationship here.
An item is created by a user.
So if I want to know who created that item,
I just have to grab the user,
and then the way that you query properties of the users,
is you just give yourself,
and remember it's kind of like JSON,
but just without the actual values being returned.
So I could say the user name and the user ID.
Let's see.
So there we go.
So the items, here's an array of items.
The first item is called the Nudie Jeans Belt,
and that user is Wes Bos, and they have an ID of that.
And you can even go further
because a user will also have, like,
let's look at this data that we have here.
A user will also have orders
and they'll also have a cart
and then they also have a permissions and what not.
But let's look at orders and carts.
So I want to know, okay,
does that user have this item in the cart?
Very easy to figure out 'cause I could just say
show me their carts and for each of the items
in their car return to me,
I don't know what the values are.
I could just hit control space and get the ID,
the quantity, the item, the user.
So let's say the quantity,
and each cart item, I want to know what the item is,
'cause a cart item could be multiple of a same item.
We'll get into that as well.
So for each item I wanna grab the title.
Let's go ahead and run it.
So, for each of the items,
this is the Nudie Jeans Belt, was created by Wes Bos.
Wes Bos also has a cart where these are the items
that are inside of his cart
and each cart item also has a relationship
to another item.
You see how we're querying items
and then in turn also querying other items
and we could go infinitely,
and we could say, okay,
who is the user that created this item
that is in the other person's cart?
And there we go, I actually put my own item in my cart,
but theoretically could be a different people,
and this will go as long as you have relationships
between your data, you can go as far as you want
and you notice that I'm only picking
the little pieces of the data that I want.
Similarly we can also, if I were to just,
let me pop open a new tab here,
if I were to query, I want items,
and before I was just saying give me the item name
or not the name, the title,
but what you can do is that these are functions as well
where you can pass them where,
and this is part of Prisma.
This is not a GraphQL standard.
Part of the thing that threw me with GraphQL
is that it's called GraphQL.
The QL stands for query language,
but by default GraphQL actually has no,
like no filtering, no sorting,
they don't have any of the stuff you would assume
that you have from like MySQL or something like that.
So part of getting over the fact of what is GraphQL
is that it itself does not fetch the data
and filter the data and provide sorting and all that stuff.
GraphQL is simply just a way to vocalize what you want,
and then that gets passed to your server
and then your server implements
these things called resolvers.
And resolvers essentially answer the question,
how and where do I get this data from?
And that's where you end up using your MySQL,
or your MongoDB or text-based return of value.
That's where you actually handle
all of the filtering and sorting
and finding of your data.
So GraphQL by itself is not a replacement
for these different database things.
It's simply just a way to, a standard to
request a specific data.
So if I go into this where,
and the where will give me a number of options,
and again, this is part of what Prisma gives us by default.
So we want to say like the title is,
contains, let's just say Belt.
And then for each of those results
I want to return the title of it and maybe the description.
And if I were to run that,
Oh, I got an error here.
So what happened, I didn't use double quotes.
Whole entire course is me gonna be
screwing up that double quotes.
So now I run it and it says any items
that contain the word Belt,
I want to return the title and the description.
And you can see that I've returned two items here,
Nudie Belt and Nudie Jeans Belt.
So if I put vapor in there,
I will only return one item that we have.
So really, really exciting.
GraphQL definitely requires you
to rethink how you approach things,
especially if you're coming from years and years,
like myself, from rest APIs,
where you have specific APIs,
and in this case we only have one API endpoint
and it's all in the queries and the mutations
and how we push and pull data to that API.
Hopefully that's a nice high-level overview
of how GraphQL works.
I think it's going to really start to set in
once we start to write our own resolvers
and write our own data models
and have the data relational between the two.